# analyzing_aimd_simulations
Collection of codes to analyze periodic ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations. The scripts are currently tailored to the output generated from the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP), but the input files can also be formatted for other software. These generalized codes work for simulation boxes in the cartesian geometry where the lattice vectors are orthogonal. These codes are being continuously developed, and more features will be added soon.


## input file
The XDATCAR file generated by VASP after an AIMD run is first formatted with the command below and then copied to a .xlsx file to use with the scripts. The command to delete the 'Direct Configuration' line from XDATCAR:

```sed -i '/Direct/d' XDATCAR```


## bond length
bond_length.py tracks the bond distance between two atoms during a periodic ab initio molecular dynamics simulation. The script can be run with:

```python bond_length.py *XDATCAR.xlsx atom1 atom2 OUTPUT.png```

Here, atom1 and atom2 are the indexes of the atoms whose bond is being monitored, and OUTPUT.png gives the evolution of the bond length for simulation. *XDATCAR.xlsx is the input file. 


## bond angle
bond_angle.py tracks the bond angle between three atoms during a periodic ab initio molecular dynamics simulation. The script can be run with:

```python bond_angle.py *XDATCAR.xlsx atom1 atom2 atom3 OUTPUT.png```

Here, atom1, atom2, and atom3 are the index of the atoms whose angle is being monitored, and OUTPUT.png gives the evolution of the bond angle for simulation. *XDATCAR.xlsx is the input file.


## dihedral angle
dihedral_angle.py tracks the dihedral angle between four atoms during a periodic ab initio molecular dynamics simulation. The script can be run with:

```python dihedral_angle.py *XDATCAR.xlsx atom1 atom2 atom3 atom4 OUTPUT.png```

Here, atom1, atom2, atom3, and atom4 are the indexes of the atoms whose dihedral angle is being monitored, and OUTPUT.png gives the evolution of the dihedral for simulation. *XDATCAR.xlsx is the input file.

## radial distribution function
radial_distribution_function.py generates a reference atom's probability and radial distribution functions for a periodic ab initio molecular dynamics simulation. The code can be manipulated to give instantaneous and average distribution functions. The script can be run with:

```python radial_distribution_function.py *XDATCAR.xlsx atom1 frame1 grid1 OUTPUT1.png OUTPUT2.png OUTPUT3.png```

Here, atom1 is the reference atom for creating the radial distribution function, frame1 is the frame index for the instantaneous rdf of the particular frame, grid1 is the gridpoint size for generating the distributions, and the three OUTPUT files give instantaneous and average distribution functions. *XDATCAR.xlsx is the input file.

# Authors
Mayank Tanwar
email: tanwa008@umn.edu
GitHub: tanwarmayank524

Nhu Quach
email: quach062@umn.edu
GitHub: quach062

Advisor: Prof. Matthew Neurock
email: mneurock@umn.edu

# Citation
Publications relevant to the code: https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c07305, https://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3149c-v2

# Acknowledgements
NSF Center for Synthetic Organic Electrochemistry (https://cci.utah.edu/)
